Creating plots
===

## Running, creating plots in Clojure (not Clojurescript)

**NOTE:** The file paths below are obsolete.

See src/free/exercise_3.cljc or src/free/example_1.cljs for simple
illustrations of use of this system.  In these examples, there are three
levels, i.e. a bottom level, a middle level, and a top level (which is
not a full-fledged level; all it does is to provide the mean of the
prior distribution).  

Each of these two examples when run (when the file is loaded using `use`
or `require`), creates a variable named `stages`, which contains a
virtual sequence of states, or stages, of the cognitive system.  The
first stage contains the three levels in their initial configurations.
Subsequent stages contain updated versions of these levels.  (The top
level never changes, however.)  That is, `stages` is what's known
as a "lazy sequence" of unlimited length.  When first defined, at
most only the first or first and second elements of the sequence
exist (are "realized").  However, if you use subsequent elements,
they'll be created as needed.

You can use `plot-levels` in src/free/plots to plot the results, or
see the comment on plotting in src/free/exercise_3.cljc.

For example, at a Clojure REPL prompt, you can do this:

    (use '[free.example-1])
    ;; Note that stages has now been defined and made available.
    (use '[free.plots])
    (plot-level 0 (take 1000 stages))
    (plot-level 1 (take 1000 stages))

The last two lines will create two windows containing plots of four
values from level 0, and four from level 1, in the first 1000 stages.
(In Bogacz's exercise 3, for example, he runs his model for 5 "units of
time" (p. 4), but divides `MAXT` (= 5) by 0.01, the value of `DT`.
Since 5/0.01 = 500, this corresponds to 500 stages here.)

Note that when the first instance of `plot-level` was run above, the
first 1000 stages (numbered 0 to 999) were generated by the code built
into the lazy sequence.  The second instance just makes use of the
stages that have already been generated.  If you decide that you need to
see what happens after the thousandth stage, you can rerun the same
command with a new number passed to `take`:

    (plot-level 1 (take 2000 stages))

The first 1000 stages won't be regenerated, as they already exist.  Only
stages from 1000 to 1999 will be generated as a result of running this
command.

